# Ionic Generator documentation

## Workflow

The included Grunt build system provides sensible defaults to help optimize and automate several aspects of your workflow when developing hybrid-mobile apps using the Ionic Framework.


### Local browser development

Running `grunt serve` enhances your workflow by allowing you to rapidly build Ionic apps without having to constantly re-run your platform simulator. Since we spin up a `connect` server with `watch` and `livereload` tasks, you can freely edit your CSS (or SCSS/SASS files if you chose to use Compass), HTML, and JavaScript files and changes will be quickly reflected in your browser.



### Building assets for Cordova

Once you're ready to test your application in a simulator or device, run `grunt cordova` to copy all of your `app/` assets into `www/` and build updated `platform/` files so they are ready to be emulated / run by Cordova.



To compress and optimize your application, run `grunt build`. It will concatenate, obfuscate, and minify your JavaScript, HTML, and CSS files and copy over the resulting assets into the `www/` directory so the compressed version can be used with Cordova.



### Cordova commands

To make our lives a bit simpler, the `cordova` library has been packaged as a part of this generator and delegated via Grunt tasks. To invoke Cordova, simply run the command you would normally have, but replace `cordova` with `grunt` and `spaces` with `:` (the way Grunt chains task arguments).



For example, lets say you want to add iOS as a platform target for your Ionic app

```

grunt platform:add:ios

```

and emulate a platform target

```

grunt emulate:ios

```

or add a plugin by specifying either its full repository URL or namespace from the [Plugins Registry](http://plugins.cordova.io)

```

grunt plugin:add:https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/cordova-plugin-device.git

grunt plugin:add:org.apache.cordova.device

grunt plugin:add:org.apache.cordova.network-information

```

## Icons and Splash Screens

Properly configuring your app icons and splash screens to work with Cordova can be a pain to set up, so we've gone ahead and including an `after_prepare` hook that manages copying these resource files to the correct location within your current platform targets.



To get started, you must first add a platform via `grunt platform:add:ios`. Once you have a platform, the packaged `icons_and_splashscreens.js` hook will copy over all placeholder icons and splash screens generated by Cordova into a newly created top-level `resources/` directory inside of your project. Simply replace these files with your own resources (**but maintain file names and directory structure**) and let the hook's magic automatically manage copying them to the appropriate location for each Cordova platform, all without interrupting your existing workflow.



To learn more about hooks, checkout out the `README.md` file inside of your `hooks/` directory.



## Environment Specific Configuration

While building your Ionic app, you may find yourself working with multiple environments such as development, staging, and production. This generator uses [grunt-ng-constant] (https://github.com/werk85/grunt-ng-constant) to set up your workflow with development and production environment configurations right out of the box. 



### Adding Constants

To set up your environment specific constants, modify the respective targets of the `ngconstant` task located towards the top of your Gruntfile.

```

    ngconstant: {

      options: {

        space: '  ',

        wrap: '"use strict";\n\n {%= __ngModule %}',

        name: 'config',

        dest: '<%= yeoman.app %>/scripts/config.js'

      },  

      development: {

        constants: {

          ENV: {

            name: 'development',

            apiEndpoint: 'http://dev.your-site.com:10000/'

          }   

        }   

      },  

      production: {

        constants: {

          ENV: {

            name: 'production',

            apiEndpoint: 'http://api.your-site.com/'

          }   

        }   

      }   

    }, 

```



Running `grunt serve` will cause the `development` target constants to be used. When you build your application for production using `grunt build` or `grunt serve:dist`, the `production` constants will be used. Other targets, such as staging, can be added, but you will need to customize your Gruntfile accordingly. Note that if you change the `name` property of the task options, you will need to update your `app.js` module dependencies as well.



### Using Inside Angular

A `config.js` file is created by `grunt-ng-constant` depending on which task target is executed. This config file exposes a `config` module, that is listed as a dependency inside `app/scripts/app.js`. Out of the box, your constants will be namespaced under `ENV`, but this can be changed by modifying the `ngconstant` targets. It is important to note that whatever namespace value is chosen is what will need to be used for Dependency Injection inside your Angular functions.



The following example shows how to pre-process all outgoing HTTP request URLs with an environment specific API endpoint by creating a simple Angular `$http` interceptor.



```

// Custom Interceptor for replacing outgoing URLs                

.factory('httpEnvInterceptor', function (ENV) {

  return {

    'request': function(config) {

      if (!_.contains(config.url, 'html')) {

        config.url = ENV.apiEndpoint + config.url;

      }

      return config;

    }

  }

})



.config(function($httpProvider) {

  // Pre-process outgoing request URLs

  $httpProvider.interceptors.push('httpEnvInterceptor');

})

```


## Special Thanks To

* The pioneers behind [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/) for building an intelligent workflow management solution.

* The [AngularJS Generator](https://github.com/yeoman/generator-angular) and [Ionic Seed Project](https://github.com/driftyco/ionic-angular-cordova-seed) projects for inspiration.

* The visionaries at [Drifty](http://drifty.com) for creating the [Ionic Framework](http://ionicframework.com/).
